This is the public github repository for the "Db2 for z/OS DevOps Experience" IBM Redpaper.

Redpaper abstract:

Whether you're modernizing your existing applications or developing new application ones, applying DevOps agile practices and tools makes the whole project run faster and more smoothly by automating key steps, and improving operational efficiency, increasing standardization.
When an organization decides to implement DevOps practices, they tend to focus primarily on implementing a DevOps pipeline to handle application code changes. However, in practice many application changes require database changes that also must be carefully considered in the context of a DevOps pipeline. Because changes to database schema are typically handled by database administrators (DBAs), DevOps introduces a dependency on DBAs to deploy code with multiple hand-offs between the DBA, the application developer, and the Data Modeler, which can result in unnecessary bottlenecks and deployment delays.
A well-planned Enterprise DevOps pipeline should support changes of to all application components including database code changes on any platform, on-premises or in a public cloud. It should be able to handle applications on IBM Z using any supported language (Java, COBOL, Python and so forth) storing that stores data in a Db2 for z/OS database.
In this document, we show you how you can manage database schemas in a source control management (SCM) system together with the application code and how you can integrate the process of implementing database code change into the same Enterprise DevOps pipeline using the same DevOps tools set.
We provide an overview of the DevOps architecture in the context of a sample application. The steps to set up a pipeline for the sample application are described in the tutorial Build a pipeline with Jenkins, Dependency Based Build, and UrbanCode Deploy (https://developer.ibm.com/components/zos/tutorials/build-a-pipeline-with-jenkins-dependency-based-build-and-urbancode-deploy/). This document describes how to extend that DevOps pipeline to support Db2 for z/OS database schema changes.
We also describe the roles of DevOps engineer who implements the enterprise DevOps pipeline, of the DBA who is responsible for database code changes in Db2 for z/OS and needs to enforce DBA rules to ensures good quality in production, and of the application developer who changes the application code and communicates requirements for changes in the database schema.
